content/_index.md, before:

+++
title = "NICEST2 hackathon on FAIR climate data"
+++


### March 11, 16 and 17, 2021 (13:00 - 17:00 CET)

<a class="btn btn-success" href="https://indico.neic.no/event/177" data-mode="1" target="_blank">Register here</a>

### Price

Free of charge, funded by the [Nordic e-Infrastructure
Collaboration](https://neic.no/).


### Hackathon goals and format

From FAIR principles to FAIR in practices. This hackathon is a combination of training (March 11, 2021) and 
hands-on using real Climate data (16-17 March, 2021)!

The goal is to take a bottom up approach to explore how the current
international standards and tools for managing climate model output (including 
[ES-DOC](https://www.earthsystemcog.org/projects/es-doc-models/), [CF](https://cfconventions.org/),
[CMOR](https://cmor.llnl.gov/), [ESGF](https://esgf.llnl.gov/), etc.) can
be reused in Nordic and national research projects to help ensure the valuable climate model
outputs are FAIR and open. We will use real world output from two global climate models 
([NorESM](https://www.noresm.org/) and [EC-Earth](http://www.ec-earth.org/)) and plan to work through 
the process of generating comprehensive metadata from the raw model simulation output. 
How metadata generation fits into research workflow and data management will also be considered.

A report on the outcomes of this hackathon will be written and made publicly available.

### Requirements

We will be using the [EOSC-Nordic JupyterLab](https://eosc-nordic.uiogeo-apps.sigma2.no/hub/login) so there is no need to install anything but:
- You need a laptop (or any desktop!) with a modern browser.
- Once registered and close to the event, you will receive some information on how to register and access the [EOSC-Nordic JupyterLab](https://eosc-nordic.uiogeo-apps.sigma2.no/hub/login). We will organize a "check your access" session before the hackathon where we can help you to go through the steps.

### Schedule

Day 1 - Tuesday 11 March, 2021 (13:00 - 17:00 CET)
- Training, planning and preparations

Day 2 - Tuesday 16 March, 2021 (13:00 - 17:00 CET)
- Practial work

Day 3 - Wednesday 17 March, 2021 (13:00 - 17:00 CET)
- Practical work


### Location

The hackathon will be held **online**, participant links will be sent to
registered participants.


### Who the hackathon is for

From FAIR experts to Climate modellers.

Are you doing one of these things below:
- You help researchers to make their data FAIR.
- You write to process climate data.
- You change scripts written by your colleagues.
- You write code that is used in climate research by you or others.

If yes, then this hackathon is for you.

### How to join

We have a limited number of seats. Priority seats are given to NICEST2 staff.

To ensure a balanced mix of participants we warmly invite both climate researchers and research data managers.

 Please use the [NeIC indico page](https://indico.neic.no/event/177/overview) to register your interest.

**As an attendees, we request you to be able to contribute a minimum of 30 hours (including the hackathon itself)**.

### Organizers

- Anne Claire Foulloux (UiO), Hamish Struthers (LiU), Matus Kalas (UiB),
Prashanth Dwarakanath (LiU), Tyge Løvset (NORCE)


### Contact

If you have questions please don't hesitate to contact Hamish Struthers:
struthers@nsc.liu.se

## Questions, answers, and feedback

Here we can share during/after the workshop (anonymized)
questions, answer, and feedback from the collaborative notes.

<!--* [Day 1 questions and notes]({{ site.baseurl }}/hackmd-day1/)-->
<!--* [Day 2 questions and notes]({{ site.baseurl }}/hackmd-day2/)-->
<!--* [Day 3 questions and notes]({{ site.baseurl }}/hackmd-day3/)-->
<!--* [Day 4 questions and notes]({{ site.baseurl }}/hackmd-day4/)-->
<!--* [Day 5 questions and notes]({{ site.baseurl }}/hackmd-day5/)-->
<!--* [Day 6 questions and notes]({{ site.baseurl }}/hackmd-day6/)-->

Commit message:

Refined the text
a couple of minor bits
and added Adil

content/_index.md, after:

+++
title = "NICEST2 hackathon on FAIR climate data"
+++


### March 11, 16 and 17, 2021 (13:00 - 17:00 CET)

<a class="btn btn-success" href="https://indico.neic.no/event/177" data-mode="1" target="_blank">Register here</a>

### Price

Free of charge, funded by the [Nordic e-Infrastructure
Collaboration](https://neic.no/).


### Hackathon goals and format

From FAIR principles to FAIR practices. This hackathon is a combination of training (March 11, 2021) and 
hands-on hacking using real climate data (16-17 March, 2021)!

The goal is to take a bottom up approach to explore how the current
international standards and tools for managing climate model output (including 
[ES-DOC](https://www.earthsystemcog.org/projects/es-doc-models/), [CF](https://cfconventions.org/),
[CMOR](https://cmor.llnl.gov/), [ESGF](https://esgf.llnl.gov/), _etc._) can
be reused in Nordic and national research projects to help ensure the valuable climate model
outputs are FAIR and open. We will use real-world output from two global climate models 
([NorESM](https://www.noresm.org/) and [EC-Earth](http://www.ec-earth.org/)), and plan to work through 
the process of generating comprehensive metadata from the raw model simulation output. 
How metadata generation fits into the research workflow and data management will also be considered.

A report on the outcomes of this hackathon will be written and made publicly available.

### Requirements

We will be using the [EOSC-Nordic JupyterLab](https://eosc-nordic.uiogeo-apps.sigma2.no/hub/login) so there is no need to install anything but:
- You need a laptop or desktop computer with a modern web browser.
- Once registered and close to the event, you will receive some information on how to register and access the [EOSC-Nordic JupyterLab](https://eosc-nordic.uiogeo-apps.sigma2.no/hub/login). We will organize a "check your access" session before the hackathon where we can help you to go through the steps.

### Schedule

Day 1 - Tuesday 11 March, 2021 (13:00 - 17:00 CET)
- Training, planning and preparations

Day 2 - Tuesday 16 March, 2021 (13:00 - 17:00 CET)
- Practial work

Day 3 - Wednesday 17 March, 2021 (13:00 - 17:00 CET)
- Practical work


### Location

The hackathon will be held **online**, participation links will be sent to
registered participants.


### Who the hackathon is for

From FAIR experts to climate modellers.

Are you doing one of these things?
- You help researchers to make their data FAIR.
- You write code to process climate data.
- You change scripts written by your colleagues.
- You write code that is used in climate research by you or others.

If yes, then this hackathon is for you.

### How to join

We have a limited number of seats. Priority seats are given to NICEST2 staff.

To ensure a balanced mix of participants we warmly invite both climate researchers and research data managers.

 Please use the [NeIC indico page](https://indico.neic.no/event/177/overview) to register your interest.

**As an attendees, we request you to be able to contribute a minimum of 30 hours (including the hackathon itself)**.

### Organizers

- Anne Claire Foulloux (UiO), Hamish Struthers (LiU), Matúš Kalaš (UiB),
Prashanth Dwarakanath (LiU), Tyge Løvset (NORCE), Adil Hasan (UNINETT Sigma 2)


### Contact

If you have questions please don't hesitate to contact Hamish Struthers:
struthers@nsc.liu.se

## Questions, answers, and feedback

Here we will share during/after the workshop (anonymized)
questions, answers, and feedback from the collaborative notes.

<!--* [Day 1 questions and notes]({{ site.baseurl }}/hackmd-day1/)-->
<!--* [Day 2 questions and notes]({{ site.baseurl }}/hackmd-day2/)-->
<!--* [Day 3 questions and notes]({{ site.baseurl }}/hackmd-day3/)-->
<!--* [Day 4 questions and notes]({{ site.baseurl }}/hackmd-day4/)-->
<!--* [Day 5 questions and notes]({{ site.baseurl }}/hackmd-day5/)-->
<!--* [Day 6 questions and notes]({{ site.baseurl }}/hackmd-day6/)-->
